challenges.scheduling.md, before:

# Advanced Scheduling / Resource Management #

> Need help in this challenge? Check deployment files [here :blue_book:](hints/yaml/challenge-scheduling)!

Kubernetes has some advanced concepts when it comes to resource handling and scheduling of your workloads. In this challenge, you will learn about how scheduling works in Kubernetes, how you can influence which nodes will be selected and how pods can be prioritized. 

## Here is what you will learn ##

- get familiar with the Kubernetes scheduling algorithm
- learn about node and affinity / anti-affinity
- apply resource limits to workloads / namespaces
- stress test your cluster
- get to know pod priority classes and learn how they can help securing important workloads from being evicted when resources are low


## Advanced Scheduling ##

The Kubernetes Scheduler is one of the master components that AKS manages for you. When it comes to a deployment of pods, the scheduler tries to find a node for each pod - one at a time. The algorithm works as follows:

1. The scheduler tries to filter out nodes that don't fit the request. There are several criterias Kubernetes checks. E.g. if a node can provide enough resources (computed as the capacity of the node minus the sum of the resource requests of the containers that are already running on the node), whether labels match or not, if there are disk conflicts (when it comes to mounting volumes), if requested host ports are available or not etc.
1. Nodes are then ranked by so-called "priority functions", e.g. `LeastRequestedPriority` ("least-loaded" metric), `BalancedResourceAllocation` (CPU/memory utilization is balanced after the pod scheduling), `CalculateNodeLabelPriority` (prefer nodes that have the specified label) etc. Each function gets a weight from 0-10 (whereas 10 means "most preferred"). Nodes with a higher value are then ranked higher.
1. Finally, the node with the highest priority is picked (if there are multiple nodes with the same rank, one is picked randomly).

### Node Affinity ###

With Node Affinity you can inluence they way Kubernetes picks nodes for scheduling your pod. 

Be aware, that there is also the concept of "node selectors" and that the feature discussed here is still in "beta". Nevertheless, it has some advantages over "node selectors":

- language is more feature-rich
- rules can be marked as "soft/preference", rather than being a hard requirement - that means, if a rule can't be satisfied the pod will still be scheduled

Currently, there are two types of node affinity:

1. `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` - being the "hard" requirement
1. `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` - being the "soft" requirement

"IgnoredDuringExecution" means that node labels being changed at runtime won't affect pods currently running on that specific node.

#### Sample #### 

So first, let's check the current labels that are attached to the cluster nodes.

```shell
$ kubectl get nodes --show-labels
```

Now add some labels, we can use for scheduling with node affinity.

```shell
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_1> team=blue
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_2> team=red
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_3> team=blue
```

Check, if labels have been applied:

```shell
$ kubectl get nodes --show-labels
```

Now, we are going to deploy a pod with node affinity:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod-node-affinity
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
              - key: team
                operator: In
                values:
                  - "blue"
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - weight: 1
          preference:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
                operator: In
                values:
                  - "1"
  containers:
    - name: mypod-node-affinity
      image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
```

The rules above say, that the pod will be scheduled on nodes with the label "team=blue" (required rule) and preferably on a node which is in the "failure-domain 1" (prefered rule).

Kubernetes supports the following operators when defining rules:

- In
- NotIn
- Exists
- DoesNotExist
- Gt
- Lt

> Anti-Affinity can be achieved by using `NotIn` and `DoesNotExist`.

### Pod Affinity / Anti-Affinity ###

*Pod Affinity / Pod Anti-Affinity* work the same way as *Node Affinity*, except that scheduling is based on labels on pods that are already running on one node rather than node labels. The rules are of the form:
> This pod should (or, in the case of anti-affinity, should not) run on *node X* if that *node X* is already running one or more pods that meet rule *Y*. 

*Node X* is determined by a `topologyKey` and *Y* is expressed as a label seletor.

> You can add a list of namespaces, the pod selectors will work on. By default, it will query only pods in the current namespace!

#### Basic sample for anti-affinity ####

As a sample for anti-affinity, imagine an application that needs a Redis cache in the cluster. We want to guarantee, that the replicas of the Redis cluster won't be scheduled on the same node.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: redis-cache
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cache
  replicas: 3
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cache
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: app
                operator: In
                values:
                - cache
            topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
      containers:
      - name: redis-server
        image: redis
```

Query the pods and show the node each pod is running on:

```shell
$ kubectl get po -o wide
```

#### House-Keeping ####

Remove the Redis cluster.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f .\pod-anti-affinity.yaml
```

### Pod Priority ### 

**Priority** indicates the importance of a pod relative to other pods. A pod priority influences the scheduling of a pod and out-of-resource eviction ordering on the node - bottom line: by `PriorityClass`, you can define how important a pod is for your application - and Kubernetes will respect your settings.

It is best to just see an example when it comes to working with pod priorities.

#### Sample ####

First, let's create two priority classes we can use when scheduling pods - one "high"- and one "low"-priority class.

> Note: A PriorityClass is non-namespaced!

```yaml
apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: myhigh-priority
value: 100
globalDefault: false
description: "This is the high-prio class."
---
apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: mylow-priority
value: 10
globalDefault: false
description: "This is the low-prio class."
```

Now, we need to simulate a situation, where pods can't be scheduled anymore. Therefore, we deploy many pods, that alltogether request a lot of CPU.

>  Maybe you have to tweak the `replicas` setting for your cluster to provoke that situation

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: lowprio-pods
spec:
  replicas: 30
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: lowprio-pods
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: lowprio-pods
          image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "250m"
              memory: "64Mi"
            limits:
              memory: "128Mi"
              cpu: "2000m"
      priorityClassName: mylow-priority
```

You can see, that some of the pods can't be scheduled, because Kubernetes reports low resources.

Now, if we wanted to deploy further pods that definitely need to run, we wouldn't be able to do so - except: we can give them a higher priority which leads to eviction of running pods with "low-priority".

You can test the behavior by deploying two pods with the "myhigh-priority".

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: highprio-pods
spec:
  replicas: 2
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: highprio-pods
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: highprio-pods
          image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "1000m"
              memory: "64Mi"
            limits:
              memory: "128Mi"
              cpu: "2000m"
      priorityClassName: myhigh-priority
```

If you check both deployments, you will notice, that Kubernetes has **killed** some of the pods with *low priority* to be able to schedule pods with the **higher priority**!

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the deployments and priority classes.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f .\lowprio-pods.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f .\highprio-pods.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f .\priority-classes.yaml
```

## Resource Requests / Limits ##

When it comes to deploying pods to your cluster, you can give Kubernetes some hints about the amount of resources (CPU / memory) your workload will need. As discussed in the *scheduling* chapter above, these requests will be taken care of in the scheduling algorithm. So basically, you help the cluster deciding, if pods can still be created or not (or if e.g. the cluster autoscaler has to create new nodes to be able to fulfill your request).

### Resource Types ###

There are two types of resources, you can set requests and limits for:

- CPU
- Memory

Now, let's try setting resource limits and experiment with them by scheduling some pods that consume a lot of resources.

#### Set Defaults on Namespace ####

We set the limits/request on the namespace level. You can also define them when specifying the pod.

##### CPU Limit #####

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: LimitRange
metadata:
  name: cpu-limit-range
spec:
  limits:
  - default:
      cpu: "1"
    defaultRequest:
      cpu: "0.5"
    type: Container
```

##### Memory Limit #####

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: LimitRange
metadata:
  name: mem-limit-range
spec:
  limits:
  - default:
      memory: 200Mi
    defaultRequest:
      memory: 100Mi
    type: Container
```

#### Test the Resource Limits ####

First, we deploy a pod that wants to consume 2vCPU of our cluster.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: cpu-demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: cpu-demo-ctr
    image: vish/stress
    # You can also define limits and requests on Pod level
    # resources:
    #   limits:
    #     cpu: "1"
    #   requests:
    #     cpu: "0.5"
    args:
    - -cpus
    - "2"
```

As you can see e.g. in the Kubernetes Dashboard, CPU usage will be limited to the amount we set in the resource limits of the namespace.

![CPU Limits](/img/cpu-limit.png)

#### Stress Memory ####

Next, we are going to test, how Kubernetes handles pods that want to consume more memory than they are allowed to.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: memory-demo
spec:
  containers:
    - image: vish/stress
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      name: memory-demo-ctr
      args:
        - -cpus
        - "1"
        - -mem-total
        - "600Mi"
        - -mem-alloc-size
        - "10Mi"
        - -mem-alloc-sleep
        - "6s"
```

This pod will allocate 10MB of memory (up to 600MB) each 6s. Because we set a limit of 200MB on the namespace, the pod will be killed and restarted after about 2 minutes.

Check the pod status by the following command:

```shell
$ kubectl describe po/memory-demo
```

You can see, that the pods has been automatically killed by Kubernetes and should have similar results as shown here:

![Memory Limits](/img/mem-limit.png)

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the limits and pods.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f ns-cpu-limit.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f ns-mem-limit.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f stress-cpu.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f stress-mem.yaml 
```

## Horizontal Scaling ##

Every organisation running a Kubernetes cluster in production comes to the point where they have to think about auto-scaling workloads/services in their application. Fortunately, with the **Horizontal Pod Autoscaler** Kubernetes allows you to configure your deployments to scale horizontally. Kubernetes will track the load of existing pods and determine, if further pods have to be scheduled or not. 

We won't go into deep with HPA, but show you an exmaple of how you can achieve horizontal scaling.

First, deploy an nginx pod with a service.

```shell
$ kubectl run nginx-worker --image=nginx --requests=cpu=200m --expose --port=80
```

Then add the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (we use a pretty low CPU utilization limit to be able to see, how the HPA scales pods over time).

```shell
$ kubectl autoscale deployment nginx-worker --cpu-percent=5 --min=1 --max=10
```

Now, put some load on the service.

```shell
$ kubectl run -i --tty load-generator --image=busybox /bin/sh

$ while true; do wget -q -O- http://nginx-worker.default.svc.cluster.local; done
```

See how the HPA works.

```shell
$ kubectl get hpa -w
```

You should see similar results (notice the *REPLICAS* column):

![HPA](/img/hpa.png)

Further information on how the algorithm works in detail can be found here:

https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the deployments.

Commit message:

adds kubectl events to the pod priority section
adds kubectl events to the pod priority section to review details.

challenges.scheduling.md, after:

# Advanced Scheduling / Resource Management #

> Need help in this challenge? Check deployment files [here :blue_book:](hints/yaml/challenge-scheduling)!

Kubernetes has some advanced concepts when it comes to resource handling and scheduling of your workloads. In this challenge, you will learn about how scheduling works in Kubernetes, how you can influence which nodes will be selected and how pods can be prioritized. 

## Here is what you will learn ##

- get familiar with the Kubernetes scheduling algorithm
- learn about node and affinity / anti-affinity
- apply resource limits to workloads / namespaces
- stress test your cluster
- get to know pod priority classes and learn how they can help securing important workloads from being evicted when resources are low


## Advanced Scheduling ##

The Kubernetes Scheduler is one of the master components that AKS manages for you. When it comes to a deployment of pods, the scheduler tries to find a node for each pod - one at a time. The algorithm works as follows:

1. The scheduler tries to filter out nodes that don't fit the request. There are several criterias Kubernetes checks. E.g. if a node can provide enough resources (computed as the capacity of the node minus the sum of the resource requests of the containers that are already running on the node), whether labels match or not, if there are disk conflicts (when it comes to mounting volumes), if requested host ports are available or not etc.
1. Nodes are then ranked by so-called "priority functions", e.g. `LeastRequestedPriority` ("least-loaded" metric), `BalancedResourceAllocation` (CPU/memory utilization is balanced after the pod scheduling), `CalculateNodeLabelPriority` (prefer nodes that have the specified label) etc. Each function gets a weight from 0-10 (whereas 10 means "most preferred"). Nodes with a higher value are then ranked higher.
1. Finally, the node with the highest priority is picked (if there are multiple nodes with the same rank, one is picked randomly).

### Node Affinity ###

With Node Affinity you can inluence they way Kubernetes picks nodes for scheduling your pod. 

Be aware, that there is also the concept of "node selectors" and that the feature discussed here is still in "beta". Nevertheless, it has some advantages over "node selectors":

- language is more feature-rich
- rules can be marked as "soft/preference", rather than being a hard requirement - that means, if a rule can't be satisfied the pod will still be scheduled

Currently, there are two types of node affinity:

1. `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` - being the "hard" requirement
1. `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` - being the "soft" requirement

"IgnoredDuringExecution" means that node labels being changed at runtime won't affect pods currently running on that specific node.

#### Sample #### 

So first, let's check the current labels that are attached to the cluster nodes.

```shell
$ kubectl get nodes --show-labels
```

Now add some labels, we can use for scheduling with node affinity.

```shell
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_1> team=blue
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_2> team=red
$ kubectl label nodes <NODE_3> team=blue
```

Check, if labels have been applied:

```shell
$ kubectl get nodes --show-labels
```

Now, we are going to deploy a pod with node affinity:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod-node-affinity
spec:
  affinity:
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
              - key: team
                operator: In
                values:
                  - "blue"
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - weight: 1
          preference:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
                operator: In
                values:
                  - "1"
  containers:
    - name: mypod-node-affinity
      image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
```

The rules above say, that the pod will be scheduled on nodes with the label "team=blue" (required rule) and preferably on a node which is in the "failure-domain 1" (prefered rule).

Kubernetes supports the following operators when defining rules:

- In
- NotIn
- Exists
- DoesNotExist
- Gt
- Lt

> Anti-Affinity can be achieved by using `NotIn` and `DoesNotExist`.

### Pod Affinity / Anti-Affinity ###

*Pod Affinity / Pod Anti-Affinity* work the same way as *Node Affinity*, except that scheduling is based on labels on pods that are already running on one node rather than node labels. The rules are of the form:
> This pod should (or, in the case of anti-affinity, should not) run on *node X* if that *node X* is already running one or more pods that meet rule *Y*. 

*Node X* is determined by a `topologyKey` and *Y* is expressed as a label seletor.

> You can add a list of namespaces, the pod selectors will work on. By default, it will query only pods in the current namespace!

#### Basic sample for anti-affinity ####

As a sample for anti-affinity, imagine an application that needs a Redis cache in the cluster. We want to guarantee, that the replicas of the Redis cluster won't be scheduled on the same node.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: redis-cache
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cache
  replicas: 3
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cache
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: app
                operator: In
                values:
                - cache
            topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
      containers:
      - name: redis-server
        image: redis
```

Query the pods and show the node each pod is running on:

```shell
$ kubectl get po -o wide
```

#### House-Keeping ####

Remove the Redis cluster.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f .\pod-anti-affinity.yaml
```

### Pod Priority ### 

**Priority** indicates the importance of a pod relative to other pods. A pod priority influences the scheduling of a pod and out-of-resource eviction ordering on the node - bottom line: by `PriorityClass`, you can define how important a pod is for your application - and Kubernetes will respect your settings.

It is best to just see an example when it comes to working with pod priorities.

#### Sample ####

First, let's create two priority classes we can use when scheduling pods - one "high"- and one "low"-priority class.

> Note: A PriorityClass is non-namespaced!

```yaml
apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: myhigh-priority
value: 100
globalDefault: false
description: "This is the high-prio class."
---
apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: mylow-priority
value: 10
globalDefault: false
description: "This is the low-prio class."
```

Now, we need to simulate a situation, where pods can't be scheduled anymore. Therefore, we deploy many pods, that alltogether request a lot of CPU.

>  Maybe you have to tweak the `replicas` setting for your cluster to provoke that situation

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: lowprio-pods
spec:
  replicas: 30
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: lowprio-pods
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: lowprio-pods
          image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "250m"
              memory: "64Mi"
            limits:
              memory: "128Mi"
              cpu: "2000m"
      priorityClassName: mylow-priority
```

You can see, that some of the pods can't be scheduled, because Kubernetes reports low resources. You can execute `kubectl get events` to review the events including detailed information why the pods coudn't be scheduled.

You can see, that some of the pods can't be scheduled, because Kubernetes reports low resources. Execute following command 

Now, if we wanted to deploy further pods that definitely need to run, we wouldn't be able to do so - except: we can give them a higher priority which leads to eviction of running pods with "low-priority".

You can test the behavior by deploying two pods with the "myhigh-priority".

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: highprio-pods
spec:
  replicas: 2
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: highprio-pods
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: highprio-pods
          image: k8s.gcr.io/pause:2.0
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "1000m"
              memory: "64Mi"
            limits:
              memory: "128Mi"
              cpu: "2000m"
      priorityClassName: myhigh-priority
```

If you check both deployments, you will notice, that Kubernetes has **killed** some of the pods with *low priority* to be able to schedule pods with the **higher priority**!

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the deployments and priority classes.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f .\lowprio-pods.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f .\highprio-pods.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f .\priority-classes.yaml
```

## Resource Requests / Limits ##

When it comes to deploying pods to your cluster, you can give Kubernetes some hints about the amount of resources (CPU / memory) your workload will need. As discussed in the *scheduling* chapter above, these requests will be taken care of in the scheduling algorithm. So basically, you help the cluster deciding, if pods can still be created or not (or if e.g. the cluster autoscaler has to create new nodes to be able to fulfill your request).

### Resource Types ###

There are two types of resources, you can set requests and limits for:

- CPU
- Memory

Now, let's try setting resource limits and experiment with them by scheduling some pods that consume a lot of resources.

#### Set Defaults on Namespace ####

We set the limits/request on the namespace level. You can also define them when specifying the pod.

##### CPU Limit #####

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: LimitRange
metadata:
  name: cpu-limit-range
spec:
  limits:
  - default:
      cpu: "1"
    defaultRequest:
      cpu: "0.5"
    type: Container
```

##### Memory Limit #####

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: LimitRange
metadata:
  name: mem-limit-range
spec:
  limits:
  - default:
      memory: 200Mi
    defaultRequest:
      memory: 100Mi
    type: Container
```

#### Test the Resource Limits ####

First, we deploy a pod that wants to consume 2vCPU of our cluster.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: cpu-demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: cpu-demo-ctr
    image: vish/stress
    # You can also define limits and requests on Pod level
    # resources:
    #   limits:
    #     cpu: "1"
    #   requests:
    #     cpu: "0.5"
    args:
    - -cpus
    - "2"
```

As you can see e.g. in the Kubernetes Dashboard, CPU usage will be limited to the amount we set in the resource limits of the namespace.

![CPU Limits](/img/cpu-limit.png)

#### Stress Memory ####

Next, we are going to test, how Kubernetes handles pods that want to consume more memory than they are allowed to.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: memory-demo
spec:
  containers:
    - image: vish/stress
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      name: memory-demo-ctr
      args:
        - -cpus
        - "1"
        - -mem-total
        - "600Mi"
        - -mem-alloc-size
        - "10Mi"
        - -mem-alloc-sleep
        - "6s"
```

This pod will allocate 10MB of memory (up to 600MB) each 6s. Because we set a limit of 200MB on the namespace, the pod will be killed and restarted after about 2 minutes.

Check the pod status by the following command:

```shell
$ kubectl describe po/memory-demo
```

You can see, that the pods has been automatically killed by Kubernetes and should have similar results as shown here:

![Memory Limits](/img/mem-limit.png)

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the limits and pods.

```shell
$ kubectl delete -f ns-cpu-limit.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f ns-mem-limit.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f stress-cpu.yaml 
$ kubectl delete -f stress-mem.yaml 
```

## Horizontal Scaling ##

Every organisation running a Kubernetes cluster in production comes to the point where they have to think about auto-scaling workloads/services in their application. Fortunately, with the **Horizontal Pod Autoscaler** Kubernetes allows you to configure your deployments to scale horizontally. Kubernetes will track the load of existing pods and determine, if further pods have to be scheduled or not. 

We won't go into deep with HPA, but show you an exmaple of how you can achieve horizontal scaling.

First, deploy an nginx pod with a service.

```shell
$ kubectl run nginx-worker --image=nginx --requests=cpu=200m --expose --port=80
```

Then add the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (we use a pretty low CPU utilization limit to be able to see, how the HPA scales pods over time).

```shell
$ kubectl autoscale deployment nginx-worker --cpu-percent=5 --min=1 --max=10
```

Now, put some load on the service.

```shell
$ kubectl run -i --tty load-generator --image=busybox /bin/sh

$ while true; do wget -q -O- http://nginx-worker.default.svc.cluster.local; done
```

See how the HPA works.

```shell
$ kubectl get hpa -w
```

You should see similar results (notice the *REPLICAS* column):

![HPA](/img/hpa.png)

Further information on how the algorithm works in detail can be found here:

https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/

#### House-Keeping ####

Delete the deployments.
